# Password-Buddy

As we all are living in the technological era.
And moving closer & closer towards more
technological advancements, we now are more in need
to protect our privacy than ever, and there is only
a string of characters standing between your data &
people who're trying to steal it.

Passwords have become a part of our lives which we
sometimes take for granted. The strength of a password
is of utmost importance. But it's not always that one
can come up with stronger & stronger passwords for
different accounts & remember them at the same time.
This is were the idea for Password-Buddy came from.

A program that can give you the strongest passwords
of your required length at any time, & will also
make a list for you of which password was associated
with which account, be it an email ID, or Bank Account,
etc. & send them to your provided email address, so that
you can access them at any time without the trouble of
remembering.




## THINGS TO KEEP IN MIND BEFORE RUNNING THIS PROGRAM

* Since one of the main features of this program is email transfer, any mail sent, either consisting of OTP or list of passwords, there will be a copy of it in the sent section of the email account that was primarily used for sending the emails.
* I have used my own gmail account for sending emails, hence had to use my ID (saahil.parmar@gmail.com) & password that was generated by Google's App password option.
* For obvious security reasons, I have removed my ID & password for the login from the 'mail_setup' function of my program. I have mentioned 'LOGIN ID' & 'APP PASSWORD' instead on line 105 of my code. Hence before using the program I would recommend that you use your own ID for login & email receiving, so as not to send any delicate information elsewhere. For the password configuration, you'll need an APP password which will be provided by Google. Here is the link for a step-by-step guide to do that:-

'https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833?hl=en'




## Environment Variables

To run this project, you will need to add the
following environment variables to your .env file

For the ease of implementation, there is a
'requirements.txt' file added into the root folder.
Please access the file for more information.

I ran this program on python version 3.9 & 3.11, and
there were no issues. To make any changes to the
program you'll need to install external libraries
from the 'requirements.txt' file into your virtual
environment, please run the following command
from your terminal & you're good to go, :-

 "pip install -r requirements.txt"


 * You can run the program by double clicking it or running from the terminal as well.




## Demo

Link to my youtube video:- https://youtu.be/mC4fqePoLVk


Here is description of the working of the program.


=> The program starts by asking for the users email.

* It is to keep in mind to enter your own personal email address. Else someone else might receive your details of ID's & password.
* Make sure the spelling of the email is correct, as this mail is going to receive a ONE-TIME Password to continue with the app & the final list of ID's & password.
* If the email is in incorrect format it will be rejected. And you will be prompted to enter the email again.


=> Once an correct email has been entered, you'll receive an email with an OTP or ONE-TIME Password & some other information like the time at which the email was created. Copy this password.


=> You'll be prompted to enter the password you received. When you enter the password, it'll be hidden by emoji, hence copying the password from the mail & pasting is the best option. As an option you can also enter 'admin' when prompted for password & the program will still accept it (THIS IS JUST FOR THE EASE OF CHECKING THE WORKING OF THE PROGRAM).

* In case you didn't receive an email, it is recommended to start over rather than continuing by entering 'admin'. Else the list of passwords will reach to someone unknown.
* You get 3 try's to enter the password.


=> Next you will be asked to choose to either ADD details to the list or EXIT the program.

* If you choose to ADD items, you will be prompted to add your email or bank ID or such of your wish.
* Then you will be prompted to enter the email ID of the account or Bank account number that will be associated with the password.
* For the password, you get 2 options, whether you enter a password of your choice or you want the program to create a strong password for you. If you choose to enter your own password then that will be saved with the correspondening information mentioned above. Keep in mind, that while entering a password yourself if you leave the password empty, then that will be declined as password can't be an empty string, & you'll be prompted again to enter the password. If you choose the program to provide password then you'll have to enter the number for the length of password you want when prompted & that password will automatically be added to the correspondening information added above. You can see this new password in the email that you will receive once you've exited the program.
* You'll again be prompted to ADD or EXIT. If you have added all the accounts you wanted to, then EXIT the program & you'll receive an email with all the details that you entered. The program will not EXIT till you specify.
* If you decide to not enter any information & EXIT then no email will be received.


=> No information is stored on the device, regarding the list that was created by the user. Only a text file is created for a couple of seconds to sort the information before sending it in the mail. Then that particular text file is deleted permanently from the system. There is no way to retrieve it.




## Acknowledgements

In the end & I would like to give my immense gratitude to the Professor David J. Malan, for teaching this fabulous course with great enthusiasm & passion.